Monitoring feature (#280)
galaxyproject/SARS-CoV-2: genomics/global_platform/README.md

		<li><a href="#continuous-analysis-of-pandemic-data-with-the-galaxy-api">Continuous monitoring of COG-UK data</a></li>
		<li><a href="#how-do-i-use-it">How do I use it?</a></li>
		<li><a href="http://localhost:8080/genomics/global_platform/#methods">Methods</a></li>
	</ol>
</div>

## What is this?

This is a collection of Galaxy workflows for the detection and interpretation of sequence variants in SARS-CoV-2. It is free and can be immediately accessed from the [three](#run-workflows) global Galaxy instances. Each is capable of supporting thousands of users running hundreds of thousands of analyses per month. Anyone can create an account and obtain immediate access to as much computation as one might reasonably need (with a limit on the number of concurrent analyses) and 250 Gb of disk space, which can be increased based on the needs of an individual user. 

As [Fig. 1](#figure-1) shows it works like this:

1. You run an appropriate analysis [workflow](#table-1). This generates variant list tables;
2. You then use Jupyter or Observable notebooks to interpret these tables;

> These workflows allow one to identify allelic variants in SARS-CoV-2 genome with frequencies ranging from 5% to 100%. 

Reviewer: Is it clear that we're talking about intrahost frequencies, not global frequencies ?
```suggestion
These workflows allow one to identify allelic variants in SARS-CoV-2 sequencing data with Variant Allele Frequencies ranging from 5% to 100%. 
```

## Continuous analysis of pandemic data with the Galaxy API

Genome surveillance projects at national levels like COG-UK produce sequencing data for unprecedented numbers of samples. To demonstrate that our system can satisfy the analysis needs of such projects, we are performing near real-time analysis of COG-UK sequencing data as it is being submitted to the European Sequence Archive (ENA). We set up an [automated analysis system](https://github.com/simonbray/ena-cog-uk-wfs) that runs our ARTIC AV-calling workflow and the reporting workflow programmatically on all new COG-UK ARTIC paired-end data via Galaxy's openly accessible API. The system also handles data organization into Galaxy histories and exports of resulting datasets. The resulting AV information is available through the [CRG Viral Beacon](https://covid19beacon.crg.eu/) project (see below for FTP access).

<iframe width="100%" height="1000" frameborder="0"
  src="https://observablehq.com/embed/@spond/sars-cov-2-cog-uk?cell=*"></iframe>

### Processed COG-UK data

Results of our analyses are distributed as following datasets:

> - BAM - deduplicated and realigned data. Only properly paired read paired with mapping quality of at least 20 are retained.

Reviewer 2: Maybe instead:

are distributed as:

- publicly accessible Galaxy histories documenting the complete analysis performed for each sample and providing tabular variant report summaries for analysis batches

  URLs to these histories and the TSV datasets are listed in the JSON file [`currently_processed.json`](https://github.com/galaxyproject/SARS-CoV-2/tree/master/data/cog-uk-tracking) containing an up-to-date list of all analyzed datasets. Specifically, the tabular variant reports are part of the history listed under `report` in the JSON file and a direct link to a per-sample variant report for each batch can be found under `report` -> `datamonkey_link`.

- key result files deposited on a publically readable FTP server. These files include:
  - BAM - deduplicated and realigned data. Only properly paired read paired with mapping quality of at least 20 are retained
  - VCF - variant calls produced with `lofreq` and annotated with `SnpEff`
  - consensus FASTA - consensus sequences for each sample constructed from the called variants, in which a consensus allele is defined by an intra-sample allele frequency of >= 0.75 and in which ambiguous sites with a variant allele reaching an allele frequency between 0.25 and 0.75 are soft-masked.
  
  Use FTP client software such as [FileZilla](https://filezilla-project.org/) to access this data at `ftp://xfer13.crg.eu/`.
